xgrep   Version 1.03
Copyright (c) 1994 Robert Nordier
All rights reserved


WHAT IT IS
----------
'xgrep' v1.03 is a new implementation of the standard Unix utility 'grep'
for computers running MS-DOS.

You can use 'xgrep' to search through text files (such as source code,
e-mail, documentation, etc) in either DOS or Unix format.  'xgrep' accepts
both fixed strings and Unix-style regular expressions as search keys.

For more information, refer to the user manual 'xgrep.doc'.


WHY ANOTHER GREP?
-----------------
Some DOS 'grep's are not very Unix-like.  Ports of Unix 'grep's often
don't run well on MS-DOS.  You may prefer 'xgrep' to other available DOS
'grep's because:

   * It is fast and requires very little memory (implemented in 80x86
     assembly language)
   * It is highly-compatible with Unix 'grep' (options, RE syntax, output,
     error messages, quirks, etc.)
   * It has been extensively tested (in actual use at selected sites for
     18 months before release)


CONTACTING THE AUTHOR
---------------------
Comments and questions may be directed to the author at the address
below.  Source code for 'xgrep' is available on request.


LEGAL STUFF
-----------
Use and redistribution of this software in unmodified form are freely
permitted.

This software is provided 'as is' and any express or implied warranties,
including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed.  In no event shall
the author of the software be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental,
special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited
to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or
profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of
liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including
negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this
software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.


--
Robert Nordier
rnordier@iafrica.com

PO Box 11266
Marine Parade
4056
South Africa
