Welcome to The Infernal Tome, a fantasy/role-playing adventure game.  In Tome
you will encounter strange creatures and bizarre situations, as you explore
Shardmoure Keep below the world of Garon.  You will be called upon to solve
puzzles, defeat enemies, and keep your party of four alive and healthy.

In Tome you will lead a party of four characters.  While you can choose your
characters and give them characteristics and abilities of your choosing, it is
best to play the game for a while first with the default characters to get a
feel for what is needed.  Tome allows you to jump right in and start playing,
but it also gives veteran RPG players the flexibility do choose almost
everything about their party.

IMPORTANT: Read the entire manual, contained in the TOME.DOC file.  In fact,
print it out and keep it handy while you are playing the game.  It contains a
lot of valuable information.  To print it, from the DOS prompt type:
COPY TOME.DOC PRN, and press ENTER.

This game is shareware.  You may freely try it.  If you like it or find it
useful, then you must register with MVP Software.  To "register" a shareware
game means to purchase it directly from the developer.  (Shareware games are
evaluation versions only, which means you have the right to try them, but
after trying them you must either register them with the author or delete them
from your system.  It is unlikely that anyone will check up on you, so
shareware works because of the honesty of users.)  When you register you will
receive The Infernal Tome trilogy CD, which includes all of the following
additional features:

   * All three spine-tingling episodes -- 20 megs in all.
   * Lots more monsters, graphics, music, sound and animations.
   * Incredible digitized speech throughout the game.
   * A CD of suspense and intrigue (not available on diskette).
   * A hint book and manual written by the author that will help get
     you through those tough spots.
   * Cheat codes for party power-ups, healing and kill monsters.
   * An auto-map so you can tell where you've been in the Keep and
     what territory remains to be explored.
   
The Infernal Tome trilogy is just $19.95 plus shipping.  So order today!

To order, call 800-968-9684 toll-free 24 hours a day.  Please have your Master
Card or Visa ready when you call.  Or fill out the order form in this manual
and fax it to: 616-831-7982.  Make sure your credit card number and expiration
date are legible.  Or if you prefer mail the order form and your check to:
MVP Software, 1035 Dallas SE, Grand Rapids, MI 49507.

For overseas orders or technical support call 616-831-7981.
