The Secret of Monkey Island (tm) README file.

Lucasfilm Games (tm) in association with 3M (tm) and Game Player's 
(tm) Guide presents The Secret of Monkey Island Caribbean Summer 
contest.  To enter, play this interactive sample from the game and 
answer the questions at the end of the demo. 

Please read the entire file before playing. 
 
If you have any questions about this demo disk or the contest, call 
Lucasfilm Games between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Pacific 
Time at (415) 662-1902.

THE SECRET OF MONKEY ISLAND CONTEST

Enter The Secret of Monkey Island contest and you could be the 
Grand Prize winner of a Caribbean Cruise. Or win one of hundreds of 
other great prizes like Adlib (tm) sound cards, The Secret of Monkey 
Island T-shirts or posters.  Just correctly answer the questions at the 
end of the demo and you could be on your way.

Entries must be received by May 31, 1991 in order to be eligible to 
win.  See Official Contest Rules at the end of this file for more 
information.

HOW TO ENTER THE SECRET OF MONKEY ISLAND CONTEST

Take a look at the questions that appear at the end of the demo.  If 
you don't know the answers, take another walk through the demo 
and make a note of them.  Then, on a piece of paper, write the 
answers to the questions along with your name and date of birth, 
your address, city, state, zip, and phone number.  Mail your answers 
to:

The Secret of Monkey Island Contest
P.O. Box 10228
San Rafael, CA 94912

HARD DRIVE INSTRUCTIONS:

To install The Secret of Monkey Island on a hard disk: 

Make a directory called MIDEMO and copy the disk into that 
directory.  At the hard disk prompt (usually "c>"), do the following:

1.   Type     mkdir \midemo    and press ENTER.
2.   Type     cd \midemo       and press ENTER.
3.   Type     copy a:*.*       and press ENTER to copy the files onto 
                               your hard disk.

To start the game from your hard disk, use these commands: 

1.   Type     c:               and press ENTER.
2.   Type     cd \midemo       and press ENTER.
3.   Type     midemo           and press ENTER to start the game.

FLOPPY DISK DRIVE INSTRUCTIONS:

To play The Secret of Monkey Island from a floppy disk drive, insert 
the diskette into the drive and switch to that drive; at the MS-DOS 
prompt (usually "a:"), enter     MIDEMO     to start.

PLAYER CONTROLS:

To move Guybrush Threepwood (your character), simply point your 
cursor (with the mouse or keypad) at the place in the animation window 
where you want him to go, and click (or press ENTER).  If you point 
to an open door and click, Guybrush will walk through it.  
To examine or "use" an object, select the verb then point to the 
object and click.  

To exit the demo and return to DOS, press Control-C.

OFFICIAL CONTEST RULES

No Purchase Necessary.  Limit one entry per person.  All entries must 
be mailed to Monkey Island Contest, P.O. Box 10228, San Rafael, CA 
94912 and must be received no later than May 31, 1991.  Entrant 
assumes all risk of lost, stolen, or misdirected mail. Winners will be 
determined by random drawing from all correct entries received.  
Prizes to be awarded:  One Grand Prize: One seven day Carnival 
Caribbean cruise for two (approximate retail value $3000). One 
hundred second prizes: Adlib(r) Music Card (approximate retail value 
$179.95).  Two hundred third prizes:  One The Secret of Monkey 
Island T-shirt (approximate retail value $14.95).  Five hundred 
fourth prizes: A six month subscription to Game Players' Magazine 
(approximate retail value $23.70).  Winners will be notified by mail.  
By entry and acceptance of their prizes, winners consent to the use of 
their names, photographs, or other likenesses for the purpose of 
advertising or promotion on behalf of Lucasfilm Games (LFL) without 
further compensation.  Chances of winning depend on number of 
correct entries actually received.  Limit one prize per household.  No 
substitutions of prizes is permitted.  All prizes will be awarded.  A 
list of winners will be available after June 30, 1991 by sending a 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to Monkey Island Winners, P.O. 
Box 10228, San Rafael, CA 94912.  LFL will arrange air and sea 
transportation for the Grand Prize winner and his or her guest.  All 
other expenses are responsibility of contest winners.  Grand Prize 
excursion dates will be determined by Lucasfilm Games.  A Grand 
Prize winner under 18 years of age must be accompanied by a 
parent or guardian.  Contest not open to employees of Lucasfilm Ltd., 
their affiliates, agencies, or their immediate families.  This contest is 
void in Canada and elsewhere where prohibited by law.  This contest 
is subject to all federal, state, and local taxes and regulations.  Taxes 
and fees are sole responsibility of winner.

THE SECRET OF MONKEY ISLAND README

If you are unfamiliar with README files, try the following:

When you entered     TYPE README     at the DOS prompt, chances are 
several screens of text scrolled by very fast and you ended up here.  

You can pause the README file at any point by holding down the 
CTRL key pressing the "s" key once.  Hold down the CTRL key and 
and press the "q" key once to restart the scrolling text.

If you have any problems, please call us at (415) 662-1902.  Our 
hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.  Pacific Time.

We hope you enjoy playing The Secret of Monkey Island Demo.
