2002-03-20:
	- which 2.1 released
		-- Version 2.1 adds DOS switchar support and fixes two bugs I
		   discovered while testing the new feature. The first bug was
		   a problem that caused an executable to be listed twice if
		   which were executed in a dir that was also listed in the
		   PATH. Weird. I thought I nailed that one already, but I
		   guess I missed it. The second bug was rather serious in that
		   a control loop caused which to completely skip checking the
		   last directory in the path. Oy! Both those bugs are fixed,
		   so which should FINALLY work as advertised.
2000-09-06:
	- which 2.0 released
		-- This release offers a couple of new features. The first
		   new option is support for the PATHEXT environment variable,
		   which holds the list of program extensions for which to
		   search. For more information on how to use the PATHEXT
		   environment variable, consult the help file. The other new
		   feature is proper codepage support. which now displays time,
		   date and file-size information using the formats and
		   separators defined in the codepage information. Finally,
		   I fixed a bug that caused which to display a file twice if
		   the -a or -ad option was selected and the current working
		   directory also happened to be listed in the PATH. Note: if
		   you're compiling which yourself, you'll need to compile the
		   Country unit, country.pas, and make it available to your
		   compiler before you'll successfully compile which.pas.
1999-08-29:
	- which 1.0 released
		-- This release features new option switches 'ad' and 'd'.
		   The new switches deal with displaying of file size and
		   date details. Supporting detail display is the use of
		   the environment variable 'WHICHDETAILS', which causes
		   the program to default to displaying details. When
		   WHICHDETAILS is used, the 'ad' and 'd' switches toggle
		   off detail display. Since the application has been
		   stable since last November and the latest changes were
		   so small, I decided to jump to v1.0. Most people
		   should be a bit more trusting of the program now.
1998-11-12:
	- which 0.06 released
		-- This release addresses a serious problem with the Borland
		   Turbo Pascal compiler's delay loop calibration that causes
		   programs compiled with the Crt unit to exit with a runtime
		   error 200 on machines with Pentium Pro 200 MHz processors
		   and higher. This fix effectively only affects the binary
		   itself; WHICH.PAS remains completely unchanged except for
		   the version information. (For more information on the
		   runtime bug and how to fix it, see the various Borland-
	`	   related newsgroups. A drop-in replacement for the Borland
		   Pascal 7.01 or Turbo Pascal 7.01 Crt unit can be found at
		   ftp.turbopower.com/pub/misc/crtfixes, which is where I got
		   my compiler fix from.)
1998-11-07:
	- which 0.05 released
		-- Fixed bug that caused which to append a trailing backslash
		   to the current working directory under root. This behaviour
		   caused which to be unable to find files in the current
		   directory when in root and the directory was not listed in
		   the PATH environment variable. OOPS! Sorry, folks. Should
		   be fine now.
1998-08-24:
	- which 0.04 released
		-- which 0.03 incorrectly reported version as 0.02  *fixed*
		-- man page incorrectly dated 14 Aug 1998 internally  *fixed*
		-- some subtle formatting changes to the code itself; end-user
		   functionality is unchanged, but coder gets points for style
		   (e.g., dir2search procedure was modifying var endOfPath
		   although it was not declared as a variable parameter of
		   the procedure)  *fixed*
		-- changed all instances of '+' operator in code to concat
		   function due to its better performance (highly optimized
		   assembler)
		-- found a problem with the way relative paths were dealt with
		   (e.g., which ..\..\bin\turbo); specifying a drive and/or
		   path to search should now be working correctly  *fixed*
1998-08-20:
	- which 0.03 released
		-- fixed wildcard support. 'which comm*' finds all files
		   beginning with "comm" that end with executable extensions.
		   Specifying 'which comm*.*' finds ALL files beginning with
		   "comm". Both '*' and '?' wildcards supported. For an
		   insanely fast dump of all files in your PATH, try this:
			which -a *.* >>which.out
		   I think the wildcard support is really nice now...
		-- some small corrections to the man page
1998-08-14:
	- which 0.02 (no changes to executable)
		-- renamed HISTORY.TXT to NEWS to conform with FreeDOS
		   coding guidelines
		-- Changes to WHICH.HLP (help file):
			--- BUGS: Wildcards are only partially handled. This
			    should either be fixed or support should be
                            completely removed. Different implementations of
                            which that I've used are inconsistent in this
			    regard, so I'm not sure what I'll do. Any 
			    preferences one way or the other? For details, see
			    the man page.
			--- Oops. Deleted the Pascal comment markers from the
			    help file.
			--- Deleted the TODO section (regarding implementation
			    of filename validity checking). I've decided not
			    to implement this as success/failure exit status
			    values are not affected either way. IOW, you're
			    responsible for your own typing. ;-)
			--- Added AUTHOR section.
			--- Made a small correction to option references in
			    the DESCRIPTION section.
		-- Changes to WHICH.PAS (source code):
			--- Synchronized man page section with help file.
1998-08-12:
	- which 0.02 released
		-- added /? (help), /v (version), and /a (all) options for
                   better compatibility with other FreeDOS commands (common
                   look and feel); UNIX-like options left as is for the geeks
                   in the crowd
		-- changed display of executables in current directory;
		   now shows .\<filename> instead of just <filename>
                -- updated WHICH.HLP file to reflect new options
                -- moved contact information from help info to version info
                   for less clutter
                -- help info is somewhat more terse now, but should still be
                   helpful ;-)
                -- added HISTORY.TXT to package so everybody knows what
                   changes I've made and can follow the development cycle
1998-08-08:
	- which 0.01a released
		-- recompiled WHICH.EXE with default TP7 compiler switches
		   so that executable runs a bit faster and no longer
		   requires 286-or-higher CPU's and FPU
1998-08-08:
	- which 0.01 released
